- [Instructor] After the continuous integration pipeline
creates a new container image,
we'll need to trigger our CD pipeline
so that it can update our Kubernetes manifest
with the new container image.
To do this, we'll add another stage
at the end of our CI pipeline.
So I'm going to go ahead and open the Jenkinsfile
for our room service.
At the end of this pipeline,
we're going to add another stage
that will perform the trigger.
So I'll add the stage and then I'll update its name
to trigger CD pipeline.
Inside of the stage,
we'll go ahead and add a steps block.
Inside of this block,
we'll use the build step plugin
to execute our deployment pipeline.
The plugin takes two parameters;
first is the name of the job,
and then second are the parameters
that we'd like to pass to it.
You'll notice the parameters are passed as an array.
The easiest way to find the name of the job
you'd like to execute is to just go into Jenkins itself.
So here on the page for our deployment pipeline,
you can find the name of the job right here.
So I'm going to go ahead and copy that,
and then I'll return back to Eclipse,
here I'll add a forward slash
and then paste the name of our job.
Now let's work on adding the parameters.
There's a trick we can use to add those too.
If we navigate over to our deployment pipeline,
let's copy the parameters that it accepts.
Then we can go back to the Jenkinsfile for our room service
and paste in those parameters.
The syntax is very similar
for how you pass and accept a parameter.
I just need to do a little bit of formatting
now that we've pasted those.
Okay, so now we have the parameters we're going to provide,
but we need to add a value property.
So here I'll go ahead and add that property,
and then for the first property
we'll add a placeholder
to our GitHub org environment variable.
Now let's go ahead and we'll copy this syntax
and we'll paste it in for each of the other parameters.
And then I'm going to go ahead and adjust the placeholders.
For the image name,
we can use the image name environment variable,
and then for the version
we're going to use the build number.
So that's everything we need within our CI pipeline
to trigger our deployment pipeline.
Now we have this and the Dockerfile in place
for our room service,
but we need to add that to the other services
because we haven't already.
Now, because we've made these pipelines in Dockerfiles
so generic and parameterized,
we can just copy and paste them into the other projects.
So let's go ahead and we can do that
right inside of Eclipse.
I'll just select the Dockerfile and the Jenkinsfile,
and then we'll copy those,
and then I can go into the other projects
and just paste them.
Okay, there we have them for the web app,
let's now add them to the guest service,
and then finally we'll add them into the booking service.
Okay, so now these files are in the projects locally.
We need to push these over to the repositories in GitHub.
So let's head over to the terminal
and here I'm going to cheat just a little bit.
You'll notice that within the exercise files,
there's the update repost script.
This script is going to navigate into each project,
stage the changes, commit them
and then push them over to GitHub.
It's a quick way to commit all the changes to our projects.
Now you can use this,
but make sure you have a little bit of horsepower
on your machine
because it's going to trigger a lot of builds very rapidly.
Let's go ahead,
we'll run the script and that's going to start pushing
our changes over to GitHub.
I'm going to head over to Jenkins at this point,
and we can watch for the new pipelines to get picked up.
Okay, there, we can see some coming in.
Let's go ahead
and we'll refresh our GitHub organization project,
and there we can see the pipelines have been picked up.
And if we navigate to the deploy pipeline,
we can watch as they trigger it.
There you can see the continuous integration pipelines
running for several of the microservices.
Let's head into our main folder and here we'll start to see
the CD pipeline get triggered.
All right, there was the first successful execution.
Excellent.
It looks like each of our microservices
was built into a container image,
and then we were able to execute the deployment pipeline
for them.
To verify that, let's head over to our GitHub organization.
Inside of the packages tab,
we can see the different containers
that were placed in the registry.
Now let's go back and we can take a look at the deploy repo.
Inside of the deploy repo
we'll navigate into the base directory,
and here we can take a look at the customization.
You'll notice that the customization
includes the updated images.
Now that our CD pipeline is stood up
and our resource configurations are updated,
we're now ready to automate deployment of the application.